Add GOALS.md, revise contribution process, freshen up to use arewesafetycriticalyet.org (#149)
rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-coding-guidelines: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to the coding guidelines

## Table of Contents

- [Contributing to the coding guidelines](#contributing-to-the-coding-guidelines)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

>   - [Contribution Workflow](#contribution-workflow)

Reviewer: I think GH handles TOC automatically now in the README, so I think we can delete this whole section and the maintenance burden?

From main:

<img width="895" height="611" alt="Screenshot 2025-11-13 at 13 10 18" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c132773d-830a-4091-ba4f-dcb372c7d674" />

    - [Note on Chapter Layout](#note-on-chapter-layout)

>     - [0) Bring up the idea for discussion](#0-bring-up-the-idea-for-discussion)

Reviewer 2: Might be helpful to also include the "optional" marker here. Can be done in a follow-up.

  - [Contribution Process](#contribution-process)
    - [Issues](#issues)

## Contribution Workflow

Here's a diagram of the overall process:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  Start(["Start"]) --> Idea["Coding Guideline Idea"]
  Idea --> Zulip[/"(Optional)<br>0: Contributor brings <br> to discuss on Zulip"/]
  Zulip --> CreateIssue{{"1: Contributor creates <br> issue"}}
  CreateIssue --> Issue["Coding Guideline Issue"]

  %% short local loops (no long edges)
  S2{{"2: Review started <br> by subcommittee <br> member in <= 14 days <br><br> Contributor updates accordingly"}} --> Issue
  Issue --> S2

  Issue --> S3{{"3: Subcommitte member <br> assigns label<br>to generate PR"}} --> PR["Coding Guideline<br>Pull Request"]

  S4{{"4: PR review started <br> by subcommittee member <br> in <= 14 days <br><br> Contributor discusses on PR"}} --> PR
  PR --> S4

  PR --> S5{{"5: Contributor applies <br> feedback to issue"}} --> Issue
  Issue --> S6{{"6: Subcommittee member <br> confirms changes;<br> regenerates PR"}} --> PR
  PR --> S7{{"7: Subcommittee member <br> approves & queues;<br>merges to main"}} --> Main[[main]]
  Main --> End(["8: End"])
```

### Note on Chapter Layout

> We have the same chapter layout as the [Ferrocene Language Specification](https://spec.ferrocene.dev/) (FLS). If you would like to contribute you may find a section from the FLS of interest and then write a guideline in the corresponding chapter of these coding guidelines.

Reviewer: Instead of "We" say the 
```suggestion
The Safety Critical Rust Coding guidelines has the same chapter layout as the [Ferrocene Language Specification](https://spec.ferrocene.dev/) (FLS). If you would like to contribute a new guideline, find a section from the FLS that interests you, then write a guideline in the corresponding chapter of these coding guidelines.
```

### 0) Bring up the idea for discussion

Have an idea for a coding guideline? Want to discuss it?

While not mandatory, sometimes you'd like to check into the feasiblity of a guideline or discuss it with others to ensure it's not overlapping an existing guideline. Feel free to drop by the Safety-Critical Rust Consortium's Zulip stream: [here](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/445688-safety-critical-consortium). Please open a new topic per coding guideline you'd like to discuss.

### 1) Submit coding guideline issue

For a new coding guideline you'd like to contribute, start with opening a [coding guideline issue](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-coding-guidelines/issues/new?template=CODING-GUIDELINE.yml).

#### 1.1) Finding the FLS ID

Note that the FLS ID should be filled according to the FLS paragraph ID for which the guideline is covering. One way to go about finding this is to inspect the page using your web browser. You'll be looking for something like:

```html
<p><span class="spec-paragraph-id" id="fls_4rhjpdu4zfqj">4.1:1</span>
```

> You would then pull `fls_4rhjpdu4zfqj` to place in the FLS ID field.

Reviewer 3: > Probably this step should go before the open a new issue step

@plaindocs the comment here is a separate suggestion, right? (or more like, a topic to discuss)

I think that's the case, but I'd rather ask to be sure :)

### 2) Create a Draft with a Member

A member of the Coding Guidelines Subcommittee should get you a first review with some feedback within 14 days of submission. You'll work with one or more members to flesh out the concept and ensure the guideline is well prepared.

### 3) A Pull Request is generated

> Once an issue has been well-developed enough, a subcommittee member will mark the issue with the label `sign-off: create pr from issue` to generate a pull request. You will see a GitHub Workflow trigger and a pull request will be automatically created.

Reviewer 2: We might want to add some points in the future what "well-developed" means.

### 4) Iterate on Feedback

The generated Pull Request may attract additional feedback or simply be an easier place to suggest targeted edits.

As the contributor of the coding guideline and opener of the issue, you'll respond to comments, discuss, all the normal things on the pull request.

#### 4.1) Apply changes to the Guideline's Issue

If you agree with the suggested changes, then rather than making changes on the opened pull request, you will return to the original issue you opened via the coding guideline issue template, and make the updates there.

#### 4.2) Re-generate the Pull Request

> When you have completed all feedback given to you, ping one of the subcommittee members. They will then remove and affix the label `sign-off: create pr from issue` to push the changes made in the issue to the already opened pull request.

Author: I'm a bit torn, frankly.

For drive-by or infrequent contributors, asking them to learn ReStructured Text and edit that directly on the PR is a little rough.

My thought process is that for those infrequent contributors, they are probably more familiar with Markdown and could be more comfortable with submitting that way again via the issue and letting the conversion happen for them to ReStructured Text.

> When you have completed all feedback given to you, ping one of the subcommittee members. They will then remove and affix the label `sign-off: create pr from issue` to push the changes made in the issue to the already opened pull request.

Reviewer: And presumably we can't open a branch on their fork automatically. 🤔

### 5) Your Guideline gets merged

Once the coding guideline contents have passed review, a subcommittee member will approve the pull request, and put it on the merge queue to be merged.

### You just contributed a coding guideline!

That's it!

## Writing a guideline locally (less typical, not recommended)

While it is possible to create guidelines locally and open pull requests yourself, we encourage contributors to make use of the process described above since it handled some of the fiddly details for you as a guideline writer.

> Generally speaking, pull requests for guidelines which do not follow the issue to pull request workflow described above will be closed with a recommendation to follow the workflow.

Reviewer: If we don't want people to do this it might be better not to even mention it here?

Reviewer: For sure, but I would tend to say that this doesn't really help. If you need to create it locally do that. But most folks won't and shouldn't, so we don't need to paragraphs of text to say that (unless we find ourselves inundated with PR....)

You could add a single line in step one open issue saying if (and only if) you have formatting that doesn't work, open a PR locally...
